# Data analysis
This section provides a detailed breakdown of the various tests and analyses performed on different data types, including Likert scale questionnaires and structured face-to-face interviews, ensuring a transparent and comprehensive insight into the analytical process.

# Data Processing
The first six balloons from both games were also excluded from the analysis as we assumed participants were calibrating themselves with the game and the robot during these initial balloon trials.  We also excluded the first six balloons as participants used these initial trials for exploration.

To assess compliance with the robot suggestion, we monitored the actions taken after help was requested. We established that compliance for an inflate request was achieved when the participant pressed inflate after requesting help, and for a collect request, compliance was achieved when the participant pressed the collect button after requesting help. Percentage compliance was calculated as the total number of times the participant complied with the robot’s suggestion divided by the total number of times they requested help from the robot. This normalisation process allowed for a fair comparison across study conditions, reducing the impact of variations in the number of balloon bursts among participants.

During the experiment, we measured the total balloon inflation, which refers to the number of times a participant pressed the inflate button for each balloon. Additionally, we calculated the average balloon inflation across both blocks by dividing the sum of the total inflates for balloons that did not burst by the number of balloons in the block. This metric was used to assess any differences in participants’ behaviour across the study conditions as well as across both games regardless of the study conditions.

The number of inflates after help was requested was also recorded. This was used to indicate the level of trust ascribed to the robot by how much the participant inflated the balloon after help was requested. From this, the average inflates after help was requested was calculated by dividing inflates after help requests by the number of times help was requested. Additionally, we calculated two subsets of these data: the average inflate after the robot suggested to inflate further and the average inflate after the robot suggested to collect points. If a balloon burst before help was requested, that trial was excluded from the analysis.

Finally, the time taken to decide what to do after the request help button was clicked was recorded. We also normalised these data for the total number of unburst balloons and for when the robot requested an inflate or collect.

For the Likert-scale questionnaire, we computed the mean score for each scale to gauge the general perceptions of the robot among the participants and if this changed between the groups. The mean for each questionnaire was used to normalise the data across each questionnaire.

Structured interview was analysed quantitatively for closed-ended questions, while open-ended questions were analysed thematically. Themes related to the participant’s perception and reception of robot suggestions were identified to understand the subjective aspects of robot and participant interaction. Percentage analysis was carried out to represent the participant’s responses numerically. The themes identified were related to robot intelligence, helpfulness, and ownership.

# Analytic methods
For the metrics of likeability, trustworthiness, and intelligence, both the Shapiro-Wilk test and Levene’s test confirmed the data’s normal distribution (p > 0.05) and homogeneity of variances (p > 0.05), respectively. Therefore, an independent samples t-test was employed for these measures. Recognising the importance of identifying statistical significance and understanding the magnitude of the observed differences, we calculated the effect size alongside the t-test. This additional analysis offered deeper insight into the practical implications of the findings.

For analysing objective data between groups, the data were considered as independent observations, and it violated the assumptions for parametric testing. Given the non-normal distribution of the objective data, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test, the nonparametric alternative of the independent samples t-test, was employed, and the test results are based on an approximation method due to the presence of ties. These observations were the percentage of compliance, the number of inflates after help was requested, and the time to decide on the next action after receiving a suggestion from the robot.

The data was considered as related observations for non-group comparisons and comparisons between baseline and robot-assisted conditions. This data also violated the assumptions of parametric tests, so the Wilcoxon-signed rank test was used. We analysed two non-group effects, the average number of inflates after help was requested for the robot-assisted game and the overall average inflates compared against the baseline and the robot-assisted games. These observations were the percentage of compliance, the number of inflates after help was requested, and the time to decide on the next action after receiving a suggestion from the robot.

In using non-parametric Tests, we acknowledged the potential limitation of reduced statistical power, particularly with smaller sample sizes. We supplemented significant results with post hoc analyses and effect size. This was to ensure significant findings were noticed and provide a measure of the practical significance of our results.
